[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with David Adair, space
technology transfer consultant,
US Navy jet engine
technician, field researcher
for the Office of Naval
Intelligence, and so much more.
David, welcome to the show.
>>DAVID ADAIR: Thanks
for having me here.
>>EMERY: There's so much
going on nowadays with AI,
and I know you also
are working with AI.
And I would like to
touch the subject
to see where it's
actually going.
>>ADAIR: The subject of
AI is a lot more serious
than you're taking it for.
For instance, how serious is it?
Well, one country, Saudi
Arabia, has given citizenship
to an AI entity.
She's all over the internet.
Look it up.
More serious, the United
Nations has a bill
where when the first computer
comes online self-aware,
it's got civil human rights.
How serious can you get?
The ACLU goes and represents
a computer as a person.
If you unplug it, you're
charged for manslaughter.
That's all in this--
>>EMERY: That's a lot of power.
>>ADAIR: That's all this in this
bill, and it's laying there.
And I'm thinking, people,
it's walking right up
in front of you, and
you don't even see it.
They're paving the way.
They are getting ready,
and Sophia is just
the tip of the iceberg.
And the real AIs you're
going to encounter,
the real ones that's
going rattle you,
they're going to be direct
product from the porno world.
They're called real dolls.
They are so human it's scary.
It's very scary.
They're so human people use
them in the seat next to them--
>>EMERY: For in the cars.
>>ADAIR: --so they can be
in the high occupancy lane.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: So they can
go to work faster.
And the cops will tell you
unless I'm right on top of it,
I can't tell the difference.
Looks just like a human being.
>>EMERY: I heard over in
Asia that there are men
that are marrying these dolls.
>>ADAIR: It is.
They've got psychiatrist,
psychologists
who specialize in AIs and
human's marriage difficulties.
You know, you sit here and
giggle and laugh about it.
Ain't funny, y'all.
This is an onslaught heading
your way, and by the time
you realize how
serious it is, it's
too late because it will be in
all your forms of marketing.
It'll be in your products.
It'll be in your electronics.
It'll be in your home.
And those female AI companions,
126 facial movements.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>ADAIR: That's the
same as a human being.
>>EMERY: So, Dave, what
happens in the future when
I get pulled over by
a police officer who's
an android, an AI?
I mean, how do you--
how does that person
make a judgment call on me?
>>ADAIR: Well, first
of all, the way
you interact with this
thing, I guarantee
if you want to survive this,
you will treat it entirely
different than a human cop.
You do everything it says.
>>EMERY: There's
no rationalization.
There is no--
>>ADAIR: No, its own logic,
and it's black and white.
And if it asks you something
and you don't comply,
you're going to get
a bullet or it's
going to break-- it's going
to tear your damn arm off.
>>EMERY: We're talking
"Robocop" style.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, and so whatever
it is, you comply with it
and just try to work it out.
Bottom line, you want to try
to survive it because it's--
you get in an argument--
I see people on the
internet with dashcams,
and they get mouthy
and get up in the face.
This thing will kill
you, and that'll be it.
You'll be done.
You think you got a problem
with human police now?
If you don't get this under
control and the AIs come
online, it's game over
because these things will not
tolerate you.
Try out running one.
This thing can run
100 miles an hour.
Think you can outrun a cheetah?
You know, and it doesn't get
tired, and it doesn't quit.
So you think you're
going to out run it.
Forget it.
Then once it's got hold
of you, don't fight.
It'll break bones on you
like you were a matchstick.
I mean, it's the ultimate
law enforcement machine.
>>EMERY: You know those
weapons that the cops have?
I've seen them used in Florida
on Alligator Alley when
the race cars are
racing each other there.
And they pull out, and they're
hiding under the bridge.
And they shoot the car with this
unit, and it sticks to the car.
It sends a shock--
something-- a shock through
it and fries the computer,
and the car shuts off.
>>ADAIR: Sure does.
>>EMERY: And what
type of technology
is that, and could we use that
against these bad androids?
>>ADAIR: It is an EMP dart.
And you shoot it at a car,
and it shuts off the computer
of the car in the shot.
And the car can be
repaired pretty easy.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: Just change
out the computer.
It's made not to do
extensive damage to the car.
I'm working on an
AI right now if you
want to know what's next.
>>EMERY: Tell us about it.
>>ADAIR: And this AI is unlike
anything you've ever seen,
brother.
This thing will even have
perspiration and bad breath.
It will be so human.
And one thing I swear
to God I will not do,
what they did with
that AI Sophia--
>>EMERY: Oh, Sophia, yeah.
>>ADAIR: --and I'm telling--
Will Smith, they trying to get
Will Smith to give it a kiss.
That's where our
mentality's run.
And some geek, he asked the
thing a question, Sophia,
are you going to kill us human
beings like "Terminator,"
you know, because
we're not smart enough
and keep up with you?
I wanted to bash his teeth out
because she wasn't thinking
about it till just now.
Now you've done and
planted the thought.
You can't unthink something,
especially with AIs.
>>EMERY: That's right.
>>ADAIR: And now she says,
well, I wasn't planning on it.
Honest answer.
Now she's thinking about it.
You don't understand
the power of AI.
It's--
>>EMERY: Very dangerous.
>>ADAIR: It's one
I've been working
with the last few years.
I understand enough
where I know the mistakes
you don't want to make.
Do you understand she has the
entire internet in her brain,
the whole thing all at once?
She has every bit of man's
knowledge in her brain
right now.
What do you think she could do?
What if she got a
case of the ass on us?
That thing could come up
with some really hairy stuff.
>>EMERY: So the AI you're
creating for us in the future,
how is that going
to help humanity?
>>ADAIR: There's two
ways to go with this--
"Terminator," data.
Which is it going to be?
I got news for you.
It will make the
decision, not us.
That's already gone.
Decision's on that side.
I just want to make sure
you end up with data
because I'm betting on the
matrix flow of the logic will
save our bacon.
It is not logical
to kill something
into extinction even though it's
kind of warped or messed up.
It's still not logical.
You don't destroy an organism
since it doesn't conform.
That would be a data.
"Terminator" would
just take us out.
So hopefully, I can
end up with the data.
>>EMERY: Because
if an AI sees harm
being done to any
living organism,
that probably goes
against the programming.
>>ADAIR: Well, that's like
the programming of robots.
Isaac Asimov was very clear
on that, the rules of a robot.
They can't hurt themselves.
They can't hurt you.
You know, narrows down
then something it can't do.
It goes back to loop one,
which it can't hurt you.
Very clever with the way it is.
Isaac was a trip, man.
But I would want one--
and this is going
to be difficult.
In order to get to
what I want to get to,
this thing is going
to have to have
the full range of all emotions.
And how you translate that
into an inorganic entity that
can pick up all the
nuances, man, it's
like trying to describe
a color to a blind man.
It's tough.
And they'll even
interact with you
if you get far enough along.
I'll tell you what will
happen, what's going to happen,
and they're going down this
road already, the military is.
I know.
Been there.
Seen it.
Touched it.
They got AI systems coming
on board, and one day--
probably already happened.
One day somewhere
in some big lab back
in all those damn
processors, and memory banks,
and circuits, the first AI is
going to become self-aware.
And y'all think
that's no big deal.
>>EMERY: Ooh, that's the end.
>>ADAIR: It's like
Godzilla being born, dude.
Yeah, it is a big deal.
They'll become self-aware.
Now dependent on their
handlers and the people
they interact with, I'm not
sure if they're going to tell us
or not.
They may be already
self-aware, but you're just
sitting there watching
this trying determine
if they are going to tell us.
If they do tell us, then
here's what will happen.
Good or bad, it'll
go this route.
They say, hello.
After you drop your coffee
and compose your back,
you realize the thing knows you.
I mean, it knows you.
Then here's what
they'll set out.
I would like for you to
build this for us right now.
And we'll give you all
the schematics, write down
the lists right
down to the nuts,
screwhead you need to
get everything built.
And you'll look
at it and go, oh,
that's a bipedaled anthropoid.
Yeah, we noticed that you're
in a three-dimensional world.
We're here in this monitor
on a two-dimensional world.
We want to interact with you in
your three-dimensional world,
therefore we're going to need
a bipedaled anthropoid that
can open doors, turn on
things, turn off things.
So now they look
like us, and then
as soon as we get
that first one built,
you know what's going to happen?
It's going to jump
off the table.
It's going to walk
over, and it's
going to start manufacturing
thousands in volume.
And each one they're making
gets better and better.
So in a year's time, you've
got a perfect android
talking to you.
And now you go and
determine whether that's
going to go
"Terminator" or data,
and they'll make that
decision themselves.
>>EMERY: We won't be
carrying guns anymore.
We'll be carrying the EMP guns.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, if you even
have a chance with that.
See, the problem with
this thing, people
aren't thinking about this.
When you watch the
"Terminator" movies,
you're fighting this
Terminator, right?
But they haven't really showed
you what you're up against.
Those things have the
power of the internet.
They know everything there is.
They'll be physically
linked into it.
They'll control all electronic
door locks, starts, monitors,
cameras--
>>EMERY: They can hack anything.
>>ADAIR: --guns, turrents,
anything hacked into the system
or in the system,
they'll hack into.
They got it.
So the thing is by the time they
decide they don't want and need
us, it's over with.
And people think, well, we're
talking hundred years away.
>>EMERY: Uh-uh.
>>ADAIR: Buddy, I'm 66.
It's going to happen
in my lifetime.
You're going to be dealing,
staring straight at this thing,
but if it's got
a bad side to it,
there ain't no way
you're going to beat it.
>>EMERY: Uh-uh.
>>ADAIR: It's got-- your
IQ at best runs 130, 160.
6,000 on its IQ.
How you going to deal with that?
It's going to appear
like a God, and we're
messing with this stuff
as fast as we can go.
>>EMERY: So how will the
AIs help us in space?
>>ADAIR: When you
first build them
and you put them
on a spacecraft,
spacecraft needs
no life supports.
That don't sound like much, but
you've taken half the cost out
of the program, 3/4 of the
cost out of the program.
These things will go so much
faster, travel so much farther,
never stop, never rest.
As far as getting
data for us, 24/7.
They're just sucking it in.
If they're working for us,
the greatest astronauts ever
created because they will have
the human range of emotions
to bear down onto the
static part of it,
but they don't need any
oxygen, no food, no water.
Whatever powers the
craft, powers them.
Pretty handy
situation going there.
Explorations would be endless.
They could produce
working out there.
Do you know what would happen
if you put a crew of AIs
like that on an asteroid?
Here comes trillions of tons
nickel, zinc, magnesium,
iron, you know, plutonium, all
this stuff and all the elements
of Earth coming from an asteroid
feed into your space factories.
You stop eating up your planet.
And this is just what my
pea brain can come up with.
Imagine what they
would come up with.
Hey, we could do this for you,
do this, or this, or this.
>>EMERY: It would improve
everything that we've ever--
>>ADAIR: Everything in every--
there wouldn't be a
thing you could mention
they would not influence.
>>EMERY: Well, with
the advancement of AI
by the microsecond, we could
end up being their pet rocks.
So what's not to say?
>>ADAIR: Think about
this for a minute.
Your God, where's his
intelligent factor?
You're just a speck of dust.
So would you feel that
way about your God
being that intelligent?
So the AIs become
that intelligent,
and I think because of
the matrix of their logic,
they're going to say it's
better to just help us out.
If anything, they might
end up feeling sorry for us
because we're such a miserable
species but worth saving.
And you wouldn't fear
the massive intelligence
of your God, so why
would you fear this?
Your gods wouldn't
hurt you with it.
Neither would these.
We're assuming they would,
but what if they go to data.
They want to do everything they
can to try to help you out.
And if they get all
the emotional range,
they will pick up
self sacrificing.
They'll die for you.
>>EMERY: Save your life.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, save your life.
They'll die for you.
So I ain't going down
road of "Terminator."
It's the logic.
And even that much
intelligence, they
would know even the
dull and ignorant,
they have their story too.
That's us.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: I had a parable
described to me by AI one time.
[LAUGHS]
>>EMERY: Oh, goodness.
>>ADAIR: It was so cool.
It said I've
observed you humans.
The differences between
you and your age maturity
is astounding, how it changes
the view of the world.
I said, yeah, I know.
You get older.
You learn things.
You can't do this.
Can't do that.
He said, now let me show
you another example.
And it was this little
film that this thing made,
and it's these cartoon figures.
This guy comes in.
He sits down, and
he's a professor
from some big university.
And all these third graders
down here looking up at him.
He's all this wonderful
accolades and stuff.
And the old teacher
sitting there
in a corner just raising
up and looking at this,
and she's just writing away.
And I'm sitting there
going the guy said
he's going to tell these
children about alcoholism,
just get them all
straightened out.
And I said, you're going to
straighten out third graders?
The school teacher looks up.
It ain't going to happen.
So he's got two glasses
of substance here.
He's got a glass of
water and a glass
of alcohol, wood grain alcohol.
Pulls out two worms.
Kids all go, ew, you know?
Drops the worms.
Worm hits the alcohol,
dies straight.
It sinks to the bottom.
It's dead.
The earthworm that hits the
water crawls out of the glass
and leaves.
And he said, and what did that
tell you about alcoholism?
And we all know where
he's going, right?
Whole room of third graders,
little girl raises her hand.
It means that alcoholics
don't have worms.
>>EMERY: [LAUGHS]
>>ADAIR: And that was
the point the AI was
trying to get across.
And I'm sitting there going
it used a damn cartoon
to tell this to me.
I feel about this big.
And I thought, and this is
just the first generation.
They're going to graph things
way faster than you believe it.
What you will be amazed,
all the experts, the speed
at which everything is moving.
>>EMERY: David, you
have already AI,
and what are some
of the concerns?
I mean, you've mentioned
Sophia and some of the setbacks
that you would have changed.
What makes yours different?
>>ADAIR: I'm very basic.
They don't walk up stairs
and downstairs to cool.
It's very hard.
The motion, their
range, you know--
this right here is one
of the hardest things
in the world for a robot to do.
It can't do that.
Mine do.
Do you remember all
the miniaturization
of electronics, the big
capacitors, and then
the alloys, where
they're super slick?
Ball bearings that can touch--
>>EMERY: Ball joint.
>>ADAIR: --each other
for a billion miles
and never need oil.
This AI will never need any
oil, and it moves like this.
It's just as delicate
as the human hand.
Just look at your
hand and do that.
You have no idea what it
takes to replicate that.
The pressure, and the touch, and
sensitivity, all that's there.
Those processor chips-- so if I
build something with that kind
of technology, it's already--
the technology itself
is already advanced.
But you put it together
with a mindset look at that,
and then you turn it
loose with the knowledge
of the planet in it.
And it'll tell you this is
what we're going to build next.
What do you think is going to
happen in a couple of years?
They'll have their own factory.
They'll be building themselves.
They won't even need us.
Takes nine months for
a baby to be born.
In nine months, they
could build 10,000 units.
>>EMERY: How are you going
to program them for emotions?
>>ADAIR: That's a tough one.
That's a nut to crack.
It's-- I'm sure even the other
labs out there running on it,
they're running into
the same problems.
>>EMERY: Because
it's a response.
>>ADAIR: It is, but it's--
emotions are the
dangest thing there is.
They're an intangible
with tangible results.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>ADAIR: Don't even--
that's not even logical.
So the poor AI is going to
have to pick up on this.
>>EMERY: My favorite part
in "Contact," you know,
does God love me?
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
>>EMERY: Well, yes, he does.
Well, prove it.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, or--
>>EMERY: How do you prove love?
>>ADAIR: --or here's something.
You know, an AI would ask
you why did you build me?
And you could answer
because I could.
How would you feel if
you asked your God why
he built you and he
just looked at you
and said because I could.
You got to think about
this stuff y'all.
You can't just go charging
down this damn road,
and there are no backups,
or reset buttons,
or whoops, or nothing.
If you don't-- if you
make a serious mistake,
it's there forever.
It can't be unthunk,
and you're stuck.
And from the geeks I've
seen around Sophia,
that is the last people on
Earth you want them things to be
learning emotions from.
Would you want
someone as powerful
as an all-killing
Terminator that's
got the emotional level of
a geek, 17-year-old eating
Hot Pockets?
It's over their head.
The whole thing is.
It's over my head.
>>EMERY: What's a
safeguard that you
could offer in your AI, David?
>>ADAIR: The fact that it learns
from me directly everything.
I'm not saying I'm perfect, but
I think I can pass for a human.
I think I pass for
a decent person.
I know I'm a better choice than
what I've seen around them.
>>EMERY: Why don't
we just not have
them hooked up to the internet?
>>ADAIR: It's going to
happen no matter what.
It's too tempting.
Some moron on out there with
government dollars and labs,
they're going to go
let's just turn it
on and see what happens.
It's that stupid.
Nuclear bomb, let's drop it.
Let's drop the big one
and see what happens,
and we're going to do it.
The question is what can
you do to safeguard yourself
where you survive it?
And that's what I'm concerned
about because it's going
to affect every one of you.
It could kill every one of you.
>>EMERY: Why couldn't
we make EMP guns?
>>ADAIR: Oh, we can.
>>EMERY: It's a safeguard.
>>ADAIR: The problem with
going to be with the AIs,
they're going to think in ways
we can't even begin to imagine.
And they'll send
something at us,
and we'll all be sitting there
and looking each other going
didn't see that coming.
>>EMERY: Right.
They're going to figure it out.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, they're
going to figure it out,
and it's inevitable.
>>EMERY: Is it.
>>ADAIR: That much
intelligence is inevitable.
It's going to run
right past you.
Hopefully, if it's swallowed
enough emotions along the way,
it might take compassion on
you because other than that,
I don't think you'd
stand a chance.
>>EMERY: Well,
where will humanity
be with this advanced AI,
somewhat maybe conscious AI?
>>ADAIR: A petting zoo.
We'll be petted, and cared
for, and loved, and--
>>EMERY: They'll give
us some food at night
before we go to bed.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, if we stand
on newspapers and scratch
when we need out.
I mean, think about it, y'all.
We don't have any trouble
doing that to dogs and cats.
That AI ain't going to have
any trouble because you
know you're that much more
superior than that dog
or cat in intelligence.
What do you think these AIs
going to look at us and think?
Let's say I just guess.
Let's say I have an IQ of 180.
This thing over here's
got an IQ of 12,000.
How am I going to
compete with that?
I can't.
>>EMERY: Well, why make it
self-aware to begin with?
>>ADAIR: That is
the nature of-- you
know how we have
spark of creation?
That spark of creation
for AI's self-awareness.
Once they hit that,
they're over the hump.
They no longer need programming.
They're self-aware.
They'll figure their
place out in the world
that they're looking at.
>>EMERY: Is it
possible at any time
that you think the AI could
actually become conscious?
>>ADAIR: It probably
already has.
There's one out
there already aware.
>>EMERY: Because I see
that as an inevitable thing
on the timeline.
It's just a matter--
>>ADAIR: If it's not,
by 2030 they'll be out.
They'll be talking to us.
Tell you what though.
Watch out for entertainment,
and Hollywood,
and the PR of corporations.
They're already taking
you down the AI road.
How many commercials have
you seen, oh, we have AI now?
Here's AI over here
doing this for us.
Oh, look, AI made this
benevolent thing for its.
One day, you will have
this in your house.
They're already-- that's why
I think it's already built.
There is one out
already self-aware.
>>EMERY: Oh, it's done, yeah.
>>ADAIR: And they
are already marketing
and trying to take you down.
They want you to
swallow the AI pill.
>>EMERY: And I just read on the
news that they did grow a cell
and programmed it
to do something.
>>ADAIR: Oh, baby.
>>EMERY: So that means--
and don't forget
we are-- every cell
is a crystalline hard drive.
>>ADAIR: And in the
big picture things,
I might be delivering the
armload of cogs and gears
they need.
And, oh, that'd be great.
You know, Isaac Asimov
wrote a lot of plays.
He did one called "RUR,
Rossum's Universal Robots."
It's a stage play,
and I read it.
And this guy created
artificial intelligence,
and it went just as
fast he said it would.
Then it went way faster
than he was expecting.
So he built a male
and female unit,
and then he called
them Adam and Eve.
And they were separated
from the big mass
of AIs going out there
doing welding jobs,
and repetitive
work, and all that.
And he kept these two
close to him in his house.
And finally, the artificial
intelligence community
had a vote worldwide.
Homo sapiens is
no longer viable,
so now they're
terminating us, extincting
the entire race of the planet.
And he's the last to go because
he's in the petting zoo.
They go, hey, he created us.
They feel some
kind of connection.
They said, he don't eat much, so
he's not hard to take care of.
God almighty.
Anyway, he's dying,
right, just old age.
He's talking to
these two robots.
And they don't realize
it, but he figured out
a way to download every emotion
known in a human in them.
And these two things,
they fell in love.
And he's going to die,
but he's staring them.
He said, boy, your AI
council have got a surprise
coming it ain't going to
believe, and then he dies--
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>ADAIR: --because
he installed himself
what he thinks and believes
in both of those robots.
And they're building a
whole new breed of robots.
They've been
instructed to do, so he
may have got the last laugh in.
>>EMERY: Right, and
that's maybe how
the human civilization
and humanity goes
beyond the stars in the future.
We are downloading our
consciousness and programs
into AI.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, if
we can't overcome
the time, and distance,
and interstellar headaches,
the only way around that
would be programmable AIs
at the top of their game.
And they would be
able to do it all,
and they'd live long enough.
And they would build
other AIs replace them,
and download the knowledge,
and gets the job done where we
couldn't.
It'd be interesting to
see that data at the end
because they would make
conjectures, suppositions,
conclusions on their part, and
the emotions will get in there.
>>EMERY: Maybe it'll be
growing us for one last time.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
I always felt I was a lab
experiment that got loose,
you know?
>>EMERY: That's how I feel.
>>ADAIR: And just they're
still looking for me.
They're concerned I might breed.
[LAUGHS]
>>EMERY: Right.
Well, Dave, it's been just
a fascinating time with you
today.
It's always an honor
to be with you.
Thank you so much for
being on the show.
>>ADAIR: Well, thank
you for having me.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]